A thank you to Heritage Lottery for funding this short project on memories of people who are from,
lived in, a part of Butetown, Tiger Bay or Cardiff Docks. This episode is a brief conversation with
Peter Pepsi Findlayson. Oh yeah, that's true. Well, Pepsi is a nickname obviously. Well,
so I was born here in Cardiff, down in old Tiger Bay. My mother was born here in Cardiff.
My father was born in the western region of Jamaica. I lived here all my life.
Yeah, so my mother is deceased now. My father, he died when I was one.
I left him on a ship in Scotland, which I didn't know anything about him.
That couldn't have been easy for your mom when, you know, when they're bringing you up. Was
they just you, Pepsi, or was they brothers and sisters? No, definitely, definitely, yeah.
And I mean, she was, she was all through the wall, you know. But I, well, I lived with my mother,
but I was with my grandmother. It was all from kind of Bay, so. So, what about school, mate?
School, I went to, I was a family-born school, South Church Street, which, you know,
from an infant, my father was 15. I went there, you know, and next to everybody, black and white,
but I didn't say that. Yeah. All that, all through my school days, you know, and still
remain friends with a lot of them, you know, today, you know, and I made me true, you know.
Yeah, I mean, religion and race didn't mean anything then, then? Well, no, not really,
you know. Well, you know, we, well, we are the way different, you know, we just play together and,
you know, go over together and, you know, we go over into the pub and drink together, you know,
and it's been a really fancy and meaningful today, you know, with all the lives, you know.
Well, well, when we, from the Bay over the bridge, like, you know, really sweet,
there's a little bit of conflict, I mean, like, in Newtown,
there's nothing, well, myself personally, you know, I, I got on with everybody, really, you know,
conflict now and again, but nothing to really talk about.
So back, back to the school, what about people talk about the Whitsun treat?
What about that? Well, the Whitsun treat was one of our pleasures, you know,
um, it's, um, it's all this, it's sort of a, you know, the, the tents and, um, you know,
college, and everything like, you know, and, you know, that was, um, you know,
it was a great time, you know. Did you, did you go on the lorry trips?
Yes, yes, that's what I mean, you know, it's, uh, people, well, I do it myself,
in the very, you know, when I grew up and worked, I've been a lorry driver, like, all my life,
and, um, I actually, you know, the commissioners and the boss, and get the lorry and
do a bit of the Whitsun treats, like, you know, so I knew all about that, you know.
Those early days, etc., what about families mixing and all that kind of stuff? Did, you know,
was there a lot of, you know, going into people's houses and eating?
Oh, oh, definitely, you know, I mean, well, you had millions of aunties and uncles, you know,
according to different people's houses and, you know, eat some, you know, I mean, um,
it was, well, I lived in four streets, you know, in the day, like, you know, my mother moved,
you know, I was born in Angola in the street, then we moved to the fire street, then the
fancy street, you know, I lived with my granny in the house, you know,
And when you got a bit older, what about music and going out?
Sing the not Escrapac, you know, and, and then I was old enough,
I go to different bars, tell us in the music.
I run a club in Quebec, you know,
that's why I go to hear about it.
Yeah, yeah.
And I used to go listen to, you know,
a very, well, I grew an attention,
Victor Parker, you know,
he played his guitar, and all of us.
Another fella, Uncle Henry,
I forget his other name, but the moment, you know,
he plays his guitar, he's mostly guitar, really.
I mean, he's entirely guitar, long video.
Yeah.
You know, I'm trying to get up to the,
that class club where, you know,
they take their instruments, double bass,
an accordion, like on drums and everything,
and listen to, you know,
everything that all them people play,
live reform, trumps, anything.
And that's, yeah, so.
Did you, I mean, you know, you mentioned the kayaks club.
Did you ever play for the kayaks or anything?
Yes, yes.
Yeah, so I played for the kayaks,
and, well, I played with a few schools, you know,
and from school, I played with the kayaks,
you know, reached on tour to Ireland, you know,
and then, oh, to different things like Carmel,
and the memory event,
and I still see a lot of the kayaks,
so it's pretty great, you know,
going to schools and everything, you know,
with, well, and the punks and a lot of them, you know.
There was a lot of talent in that team, wasn't there?
Yeah, there was, yeah,
oh, we had a lot of talent from down here, like,
you know, like boxers and, you know,
we played like Billy Boston,
Thoriskin,
Bakhtin,
Teddy Beats,
and Faye Edwards, you know,
well, we were all in the school together,
and we played rugby together,
and mixed and all the drink together, you know.
Yeah, what about you and family, Petty?
Do you have-
My family?
Yeah, have you got family as well now, or whatever?
Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
myself and my wife, my daughter, my stepson, you know,
and one, two, three, five grandchildren,
a few, you know, the same as me right now,
during this, you know, this COVID,
you know, moving out and everything,
so I'm still, still grumpy.
It's a different,
it's a different feeling being a granddad, isn't it?
You know, it's not like being a,
it's different to being a dad,
because you can be,
you don't have all the responsibility,
you can be a bit different.
Well, yeah, I really,
I really don't know about that,
because I'm like that now, you know,
and I got two more kids now,
they're doing their work from school,
you know, whatever they call it,
Homework area, yeah.
But, you know, they've been asking me
any answers I've ever had,
because, you know, I forgot an old school,
you know, except for what you're asking, you know?
Yeah.
What, I mean, what do you,
what about the changes to the Bay and Bute Town
and the neighborhood?
What do you think about that,
the way everything's been knocked down and changed?
Well, you know, that's,
I think it's terrible, you know,
as regards to, you know, the housing and,
and, well, when we were down at Bay,
you know, they,
that's when they just started building them
multi-story buildings and all that,
like, you know, I didn't like that,
because it dispersed a lot of families,
like, you know, I mean, when it was the Bay,
I knew where everybody lived, you know,
and now that they've gone and had all these facts,
excuse me, I didn't know where anyone lived,
and then, you know, things like that.
But, you know, I mean, where I live now
in Palma Street,
as I said, I've been here now for like 45, 46 years.
I know everybody, well, not everybody,
because people, different people moving in,
but down here it's quite nice, you know,
but up at Bay there now, I know, I know anyone, you know,
when I grew up, you know,
the shoes I live in, like, you know,
there was a lot of Samaritan people,
those lovely, lovely people, you know,
you got boating houses, and people went into them
and have a cup of tea, or they make a pop, you know,
and they were invited to eat, you know,
but I don't, well, I will tell you,
I don't want the Bay at all now,
but, you know, when I was there,
you go into people's houses and eat,
and, you know, like, what do they call them, cafes,
any, or boating houses, you know,
eat to them people, they've invited me to eat,
but, you know, I don't want them now,
so, but I don't want them in like that happens today,
you know, I don't think so.
And everybody, all of those, all of those people,
even though they didn't have a lot of money,
they always seemed to dress smart,
do you know what I mean?
They always seemed to look after themselves.
Well, yeah, they had their Sunday best, you know,
and as I mentioned, shoe, you know,
they've got the black ties and suits and everything,
like, you know, but it's a funny difference,
it's very, like, you know, I mean,
I've been to quite a lot of shoe houses,
I've always dressed myself, you know,
in an additional way, with black ties,
suits and tights, and everything,
but they just used casual things, you know, you know.
Funerals, funerals always were a big thing
in the Bay, weren't they?
Do you know what I mean?
Always, yeah.
Yeah, you know, yeah, and you know,
well, I work for the firm, you know,
and I just ask the boss, you know,
I say, well, there's a funeral, you know,
so he needs to make a joke for me,
and, you know, there's anybody left, like, you know,
but I mean, there's people's mothers and grandmothers
and fathers, you know, and you're going up to them,
and you tend to go to a mother or father
or grandfather's funeral, like, you know?
Yeah.
And that's how it's always been, you know?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I, well, I mean, people have talked about stuff
like things like, you remember Chalky White's place,
the center?
Yes, yes.
I mean, did you have anything to do with that?
Did you ever go there or whatever?
Oh, I used to go there, yeah, as I go there, you know,
I used, I used to just, you know,
play games with table tennis or game a silver pool
or whatever, you know, and I never had a big interest in it,
but I'd go there just to meet friends and everything.
I knew Chalky White very well, you know?
People said he was an important man at the time
in terms of what he did for young people.
What did you, what do you think?
Well, you know, I was saying, well,
I knew his name was Vivian White, you know?
Yeah.
They called him Chalky, you know?
Well, we are calling him Chalky White.
Yes.
He was, he was a, he came running,
and, you know, he, if you wanna ask him anything, you know,
he told him and he helped him to,
if he could with anything, I mean,
if he wanted to, I don't know, whatever.
What do you call it?
Any inquiries.
Yeah.
Fill out any forms and all that kind of,
which, some things like that, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
And what about, you know, people have said, like,
when they were at school, there were certain teachers
that were important to them.
You know, some have mentioned Betty Campbell
and Owen Watkins and others, and I just wondered,
what about you?
Were there any teachers?
You, you, you kind of,
that you recall?
Yeah, well, I used to live in the same house as Betty Campbell
when I was, when I was young, you know, very young,
and I knew Owen Watkins very well.
You know, the lady kind of teachers when I was,
you know, when I was at school, like, you know?
But I used to go to all them houses, regular, like, you know?
I mean, she was older than I was, and Betty Campbell,
but we made friends, and so, you know,
they would, they passed away, which was reasonable, you know?
Yeah.
And, and they were so good, the two of them,
which is that too, if you wanted to, you know,
fill out any forms, or say, you know,
let's say that they, they help you,
and you can help, you know?
So, um.
I mean, what, if you were, you know,
imagine somebody's having a cup of coffee
in those new, those new places,
and down the, what they now call the Bay,
and it's a tourist, and they don't know anything
about the life that went on, you know, before.
What would you say to them that they should know
about the people that lived, grew up,
and were in the Bay, and in Butetown?
What would you say to them, if you had a chance?
If I had a chance, I will.
I mean, well, I was,
oh, I was brought up, you know, I mean,
you know, well, our manners,
we respect the people, and,
and that's what we were taught, you know?
And that's why I try to tell my grandchildren,
no, you know, we have to be respectful,
and, you know, something like that.
Yeah.
I try.
I mean, all of, what about all of the,
you know, you said about, you know, music and that,
and all of the pubs, I think there's only the packet
that's left, isn't there?
You mean, you know, pubs, yes, um, yes.
There's only a packet down here, no.
I mean, um, I mean,
the only thing when we used to all meet together,
which is, but there's just pubs,
but you know, I think you see,
they're all school friends, and, you know,
and people like that, but,
I don't think you can even do that in Great Nile.
No.
You know, or you can meet outside, or in a corner,
you know, I don't know where they live off it,
or in their house and everything, and that's about it.
Yeah.
Right.
Well, thank you, Pepsi, for sparing some time with me.
I'm grateful, mate.
Yeah.
And it's nice to hear your memories, as I say.
Well, I hope, you know, I mean,
I'm a bit forgetful, you know,
but I do try.
We're still around, man.
The thing is that we're still around.
Yeah, you know, yes.
There were times when we were younger,
we more than likely would have thought,
I'll never get to be there at these ages.
Well, I would say,
82, you know, type of athlete,
that's what I would like to do.
You know, but, well,
too bad.
Well, I said again, I was wondering why you asked me here,
because I'm not too swift myself, really,
but I do try.
Yeah.
I mean, when all's said and done,
if somebody had said to you 60 years ago,
you'll have children, and you'll have grandchildren,
and two of them will be sitting in your place,
doing their own work.
You might not believe them, but, you know.
No, no, I wouldn't have, I wouldn't have.
But now I know how true it is.
You know, now,
my younger sister's father,
truly not a nurse,
but in the school, I know,
and as I say, the truth,
and my kids know, and they're confused, you know,
in their work, so.
It's a lovely feeling having them, isn't it?
Oh, the best in the world.
The best in the world, you know.
I live extremely alone,
and every morning, you know,
I think of the day, you know,
I see my wife, and then I go on the bed,
and I can't go to the bathroom,
because they get on my nerves,
but, you know, I'm just terrible.
Yeah.
Well, all I'd say is, man,
just keep telling them,
because those memories, those memories of,
it's the same as you and your mum,
those memories of the conversations you had with them,
they're precious, aren't they?
You know, when you...
Oh, no, definitely.
Yeah, most definitely.
Right.
Well, thank you, sir,
for spending some time with me.
I'm grateful.
I hope I've done it.
I hope that I did.
You've been fine.
You've been fine, man.
Yeah.
Oh, thank you very much.
Okay.
Good to speak to you.